roles/cluster_upgrade/README.md, before:

oVirt Cluster Upgrade
=========

The `cluster_upgrade` role iterates through all the hosts in a cluster and upgrades them.

Role Variables
--------------

| Name                    | Default value         |                                                     |
|-------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| cluster_name            | Default               | Name of the cluster to be upgraded.                 |
| stopped_vms             | UNDEF                 | List of virtual machines to stop before upgrading.      |
| stop_non_migratable_vms <br/> <i>alias: stop_pinned_to_host_vms</i>  | false                 | Specify whether to stop virtual machines pinned to the host being upgraded. If true, the pinned non-migratable virtual machines will be stopped and host will be upgraded, otherwise the host will be skipped. |
| upgrade_timeout         | 3600                  | Timeout in seconds to wait for host to be upgraded. |
| host_statuses           | [UP]                  | List of host statuses. If a host is in any of the specified statuses then it will be upgraded. |
| host_names              | [\*]                  | List of host names to be upgraded.        |
| check_upgrade           | false                 | If true, run check_for_upgrade action on all hosts before executing upgrade on them. If false, run upgrade only for hosts with available upgrades and ignore all other hosts. |
| reboot_after_upgrade    | true                  | If true reboot hosts after successful upgrade. |
| use_maintenance_policy  | true                  | If true the cluster policy will be switched to cluster_maintenance during upgrade otherwise the policy will be unchanged. |
| healing_in_progress_checks            | 6                     | Maximum number of attempts to check if gluster healing is still in progress. |
| healing_in_progress_check_delay              | 300                   | The delay in seconds between each attempt to check if gluster healing is still in progress.    |
| wait_to_finish_healing  | 5                     | Delay in minutes to wait to finish gluster healing process after successful host upgrade.             |

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: oVirt infra
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  gather_facts: false

  vars:
    engine_fqdn: ovirt-engine.example.com
    engine_user: admin@internal
    engine_password: 123456
    engine_cafile: /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/ca.pem

    cluster_name: production
    stopped_vms:
      - openshift-master-0
      - openshift-node-0
      - openshift-node-image

  roles:
    - cluster_upgrade
  collections:
    - @NAMESPACE@.@NAME@
```

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/122760.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/122760)

Commit message:

cluster_upgrade: Add correlation-id header (#222)
Signed-off-by: mnecas <necas.marty@gmail.com>

roles/cluster_upgrade/README.md, after:

oVirt Cluster Upgrade
=========

The `cluster_upgrade` role iterates through all the hosts in a cluster and upgrades them.

Role Variables
--------------

| Name                    | Default value         |                                                     |
|-------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| cluster_name            | Default               | Name of the cluster to be upgraded.                 |
| stopped_vms             | UNDEF                 | List of virtual machines to stop before upgrading.      |
| stop_non_migratable_vms <br/> <i>alias: stop_pinned_to_host_vms</i>  | false                 | Specify whether to stop virtual machines pinned to the host being upgraded. If true, the pinned non-migratable virtual machines will be stopped and host will be upgraded, otherwise the host will be skipped. |
| upgrade_timeout         | 3600                  | Timeout in seconds to wait for host to be upgraded. |
| host_statuses           | [UP]                  | List of host statuses. If a host is in any of the specified statuses then it will be upgraded. |
| host_names              | [\*]                  | List of host names to be upgraded.        |
| check_upgrade           | false                 | If true, run check_for_upgrade action on all hosts before executing upgrade on them. If false, run upgrade only for hosts with available upgrades and ignore all other hosts. |
| reboot_after_upgrade    | true                  | If true reboot hosts after successful upgrade. |
| use_maintenance_policy  | true                  | If true the cluster policy will be switched to cluster_maintenance during upgrade otherwise the policy will be unchanged. |
| healing_in_progress_checks            | 6                     | Maximum number of attempts to check if gluster healing is still in progress. |
| healing_in_progress_check_delay              | 300                   | The delay in seconds between each attempt to check if gluster healing is still in progress.    |
| wait_to_finish_healing  | 5                     | Delay in minutes to wait to finish gluster healing process after successful host upgrade.             |
| engine_correlation_id  | UNDEF                  | The correlation id with which be the role run.             |

Example Playbook
----------------

```yaml
---
- name: oVirt infra
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local
  gather_facts: false

  vars:
    engine_fqdn: ovirt-engine.example.com
    engine_user: admin@internal
    engine_password: 123456
    engine_cafile: /etc/pki/ovirt-engine/ca.pem

    cluster_name: production
    stopped_vms:
      - openshift-master-0
      - openshift-node-0
      - openshift-node-image

  roles:
    - cluster_upgrade
  collections:
    - @NAMESPACE@.@NAME@
```

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/122760.png)](https://asciinema.org/a/122760)
